# SUDOKU
#### Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r9HkV0itXJo
#### Description:
This webapp uses a combination of python, flask, and HTML. It works by generating a sudoku from one of four difficulties. It then gives the user the sudoku of the chosen difficulty and allows them to solve it. The user must click on an empty cell and then select the number they wish to put in that cell. If an incorrect entry is given, the user will be told as such. Otherwise, the correct number will appear in the cell and the user can move on to select the next cell. Once the user has completed the sudoku, they will see a congratulatory message.

The first step in my project was to write the python code to generate a sudoku. This is done in my checker.py file. It first generates a blank (every entry is 0) 9x9 grid. Then it fills the grid with random numbers which obey the rules of a sudoku (each number from 1 to 9 must appear exactly once in each row, column, and 3x3 grid). When I first wrote the code for this section, I encountered some difficulty, since my formula did not account for the fact that when adding a 'legal' number, you may accidentally be creating a grid which has not solution. I got around this by writing another function which can check whether a partially solved sudoku has a solution. This function allowed me to check whether a given number has a solution and then only add it to the sudoku if it did. In order to speed up this process, I started by filling the top left, middle, and bottom right 3x3 grids randomly first. This can be done without using the checker algorithm, since none of 3x3s overlap any rows or columns.

Once the whole grid is filled, we save a copy of it as the solution. Then we go to the next step, which is to remove a certain number of numbers from the grid, depending on the difficulty. The difficulty with this part is that as you start to remove numbers, you may be creating a puzzle which has multiple solutions and we do not want to do this. In order to avoid this problem, I used a function which was able to check how many solutions there are to any given solutions. While removing numbers from the grid, this function could check to make sure there is only one valid solution. This part of the program uses a recursive function, so that if the function created a puzzle with multiple solutions, it can go back and try removing a different number, until eventually it finds a cell where there is only one solution. The function which generates the sudoku takes two inputs (a blank sudoku and the difficulty) and it gives two outputs (the puzzle and the solution).

I used flask and HTML to create a webapp which allows the user to choose their difficulty and then solve the sudoku. While coding this, I came across some issues with jinja and the form. Firstly, I could not figure out how to have a form take the value given to it by jinja (in this case it was the coordinates of the cell the user clicked on), and then return it to python. I figured out that you have to set the value of the button as: value="{{ row }}{{ col }}". The second problem I encounteres was that I could not seem to submit the inputs of two buttons (the cell coordinate and the number to be input), but I got around this by making the cell input only appear after the coordinates had already been chosen. I am sure there is a way to solve this within the same page, but this also prevented the used from submitting multiple different cell coordinates in one go which would cause an error.

In terms of what the files contain:

app.py contains the flask code and all of the code that communicates with the html. It is also where we check user inputs and make sure that the user gets the correct response back.

checker.py contains the python code to create a sudoku. The main functions in here are called in app.py when the user selects a difficulty in order to generate the sudoku.

The HTML files allow the app to display itself on the web. They also use jinja, so they can all be based on the template, layout.html.

There is also a style.css file which contains some styling for the HTML code. Most notably, it enables the sudoku itself to look good, and for the empty cells to have large buttons which fill the whole cell and appear highlighted when clicked.